
                                No. 2.

                           Domestic Animals.

                              STORY BOOK

                             FOR CHILDREN.

                            [Illustration]

                           PITTSFIELD MASS.
                              E. WERDEN.

                                 1848.




                           DOMESTIC ANIMALS.

                             A STORY BOOK

                             FOR CHILDREN.

                            [Illustration]

                           PITTSFIELD, MASS.
                        PUBLISHED BY E. WERDEN.
                                 1848



[Illustration]


The HORSE is one of the noblest, and most useful of the domestic
animals. If properly managed, he is gentle, and sometimes manifests a
strong attachment for his master. He is found in almost all climates.

[Illustration]

The DOG is a social animal, and is the companion of man in all civilized
countries. He varies in size, from the little lap-dog, to the large
mastiff, and hound. Some of them are used to guard property from
thieves.

[Illustration]

The CAT is a useful animal, and there are very few little boys or girls
that do not love the cat. In this country it is usually black, white, or
grey; but in Asia it is red, and at the Cape of Good Hope blue. In Egypt
cats were formerly worshiped, and severe laws were passed against those
who ill-treated them. In China they have little beds of down made for
them, while they have silver collars for their necks, and beautiful
rings for their ears, made of jasper or sapphire. The Turks have little
houses made for them, and servants to attend them. The finest species of
domestic cats are those called Angora. It is said that the cats of
Russia have their tails six times as long as their bodies.

[Illustration]

The PIG is not a very handsome animal, but makes excellent food. He
never seems to be tired of eating, and if he has plenty of food only
stops to sleep or wallow in the dirt. He makes a sharp squealing noise
when hungry.

[Illustration]

The CAMEL is a native of Africa, and Arabia. It has two humps upon its
back between which the natives lash their burdens. They have very long
legs, and are thus able to travel through the deep sands, where no other
animal can go. They have also an extra stomach where they can deposite
water enough to last them two or three weeks. Thus the camel is able to
travel across the long deserts where there is neither food nor water for
hundreds of miles. The camel is very patient, and never complains if he
is able to carry the load, but if not he sinks upon the ground, uttering
the most piteous cries. The Arabs often eat their flesh, and make butter
of their milk.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Domestic animals, by Anonymous

